Final Deliverables
      The final project will be either a website for a portfolio, a story, or on a subject you care deeply about. This assignment will be broken up into smaller segments:
Website (300 Points)
Creative Brief (25 Points)

Wireframes/Sketches (25 Points)

Online Marketing and SEO Plan (25 Points)

Google Analytics (25 Points)

Website Presentation (-50 points for anyone that misses this component) May 2nd from 5pm - 7pm
Website

Deploying a website (50 Points)
Design/Responsiveness (CSS Grid small, medium and large devices and use of @media) (50 Points)
JS/jQuery and jQuery Plugins JS Libraries (50 Points)
Creativity (50 Points)
Minimum of 5 pages (100 Points)
Posting and formatting content Your grade will be based on the following parameters:Make sure that images are properly scaled and fit in your layout
Making sure your images and content express the intent of your site
Use HTML structure and semantic tags to provide information hierarchy
Use CSS tags such as, colors, fonts, grid, etc to create a theme and design for your website.
Use HTML and CSS tags to create professional design and layout for your project.
Content quality – Clear message (what are you trying to saying)
Use Jquery event listeners, JS functions and arrays to add thoughtful interaction to your website
Creative Brief, Wireframe, inspirations - include this in deliverables folder
In your final project folder, create a folder named deliverables and make sure you include the following information/items

Wireframes (25 Points)
Create simple layouts for each distinct pages, scan or take pictures of your designs and place them in your project folder
Creative brief (25 Points)
Look at the section below and answer all the appropriate questions (The more details the better!)
List 5 portfolios/websites that are inspirations
What’s a creative brief?
 In the best cases, a creative brief is a document created through initial meetings, interviews, readings and discussions between a client and designer before any work begins. Throughout the project, the creative brief continues to inform and guide the work. A good creative brief will answer these questions:
 * What is this project?
 * Who is it for?
 * Why are we doing it?
 * What needs to be done? By whom? By when?
 * Where and how will it be used?

 
 1. Background Summary: Who is the client? What is the product or service? What are the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (or SWOTs) involved with this product or service? Are there existing research, reports and other documents that help you understand the situation?
 2. Overview: What is the project? What are we designing and why? Why do we need this project? What’s the opportunity?
 3. Drivers: What is our goal for this project? What are we trying to achieve? What is the purpose of our work? What are our top three objectives?
 4. Audience: Who are we talking to? What do they think of us? Why should they care?
 5. Competitors: Who is the competition? What are they telling the audience that we should be telling them? SWOT analysis on them? What differentiates us from them?
 6. Tone: How should we be communicating? What adjectives describe the feeling or approach?
 7. Message: What are we saying with this piece exactly? Are the words already developed or do we need to develop them? What do we want audiences to take away?
 8. Visuals: Are we developing new images or picking up existing ones? If we are creating them, who/what/where are we photographing or illustrating? And why?
 9. Details: Any mandatory information that must be included? List of deliverables? Preconceived ideas? Format parameters? Limitations and restrictions? Timeline, schedule, budget?
 10. People: Who are we reporting to? Who exactly is approving this work? Who needs to be informed of our progress? By what means?
ONLINE MARKETING AND SEO PLAN (25 POINTS) - include this in deliverables folder
Come up with a marketing plan for your website. Explain your business rationale and how you are going to reach your target audience? Based on your objectives, come up with a marketing recommendation for your site. Choose either twitter, google adwords, or facebook. List what keywords are you going to buy? What is the duration of your campaign and total cost?

Include screenshots of your campaign as well as your write up in a blog post or add in your hw index.

Google analytics on your site (25 POINTS) - include this in deliverables folder
Take screen shots

Presentation 

     You will have 5 minutes or less to demo your website to the class. Presentation order will be random and provided day of. This exercise will serve as great practice talking about your web work should you have to provide such a demo in the future. Don't create a powerpoint. Demoing the site and talking about it will suffice per the below. Also, attach a written document with the answers to the talking point below for full credit. 

TALKING POINTS

- What is your site about and what was the motivation to create it?

- How is your site structured/ what are the different pages

- What Javascript/Jquery libraries are being used here and would you recommend using it for future projects

- Show site responsiveness

- What are your future project plans/next steps to take for your web project if any?